Hi, Mystery Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain a French horror-thriller
film called "Evolution."
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care!
Nicolas is a sickly young boy living by the
sea with his mother.
One day while swimming in the sea, Nicolas
glimpses what appears to be a dead boy with
a red starfish on his belly.
Nicolas quickly picks his way across the striking
dark rocks of his town's shoreline to report
his discovery to his mother.
Mum immediately goes diving and brings back
the starfish, but she tells him there is no
dead body there.
At home, Nicolas is given slimy meals for
supper, and his mother gives him a dose of
medication.
Nicolas asks his mother what sickness he is
having.
His mother explains that all boys on this
island require treatments because their bodies
will change and weaken as they get older.
Later that night, all mothers on the island
are seen gathering somewhere.
They are going to the shoreline.
Then, Nicolas' mother brings back the dead
body Nicholas saw before, and the other mothers
gather around it.
The following day, Nicolas plays with his
starfish.
After another boy mocks him for being afraid
of it, he grows angry and attacks the boy.
He later hacks off one of the starfish's arms.
After his outburst, his mother takes him to
a hospital for regular observation.
At the hospital, a doctor injects a yellow
liquid into Nicolas' stomach.
He is then told to stay one night in the hospital.
Nicolas later finds himself in a ward with
other boys who have been similarly operated on.
They begin to question what sickness they
are having.
At night, the scene shows nurses who are watching
videos of cesarean sections being performed.
The following day, Nicolas is released from
the hospital.
He begins to suspect his mother and the nurses
of having lied to him.
He visits his friend's house, Victor, and
they sneak out in the middle of the night
to observe what the mothers are doing.
However, on their way, Victor gets scared,
so he runs back home.
Nicolas continues his way in order to discover
the truth.
When he arrives, he's very surprised at what
he sees.
He sees the women lying together completely
nude, writhing around in the mud, and passing
an object from one to another.
He immediately runs back home.
A few hours later, at home, he sneaks a peek
at his mother as she is showering off the
mud.
He observes that she has what appears to be
suckers on her back.
Back at the hospital, Nicolas is given an
ultrasound.
To his mother's apparent joy, they hear the
heartbeat of a fetus.
Nicholas is then taken into a room to stay
another night in the hospital while waiting
for the final surgery.
In that room, he meets other children, including
his best friend, Victor.
Later that night, Victor is operated on.
After the operation, a creature is taken out
of his stomach and put in a jar.
Victor dies during the operation.
In the morning, Nicholas asks the nurse about
Victor's whereabouts.The nurse lies ,and tells
Nicolas that Victor is recovering.
A nurse brings a conch shell into the ward,
saying that Victor has sent it to them.
Nicolas's mother visits him, and she brings
food for him.
However, he refuses to eat what she feeds
him.
When she becomes upset and begins to look
through his sketchbook, he accuses her of
not being his mother.
They then sedate him and take away his drawing
book.
In the hospital, Nicolas develops a friendship
with one of the nurses, Stella, who seems
to have taken a liking to Nicolas.
Stella sneaks Nicolas crayons and draws with
him.
Nicolas' drawings include a dead boy and starfish
but also a bicycle, a car, a building, and
a giraffe.
Stella then tells him a secret; She shows
Nicolas a file with pictures of women with
suckers on their backs, including one of a
young girl.
That night, she takes him down to the sea,
shows him the suckers on her back, and allows
him to touch them before taking him into the
water.
However, due to being in the water for too
long, Nicolas passes out.
Stella immediately revives him using CPR.
Nicholas goes back to the hospital.
At night, he sneaks into another room, where
he finds one of the boys.
When Nicolas approaches, the boy lays Nicolas's
hand on his own stomach, and he feels movement
in the boy's body.
After forcing Nicolas to press on his stomach,
he begins to vomit.
Nicolas runs away in fear and enters a different
room.
In that room, he sees one of the boys floating
in a tank.
Not long after, he is caught by a nurse.
And he is taken for the final surgery.
After the surgery, Nicolas awakens in a tank.
He is in restraints and sees what appears
to be two babies inside the tank with him.
He is shocked to see this, and he faints.
Nicolas wakes up and again finds himself by
the sea with Stella.
They again enter the water, but this time
she presses her mouth to his as she swims
with him, giving him air to breathe underwater.
She pushes him to the surface, and the two
end up in a small rowboat floating away from
the island.
After making sure Nicolas has a drink of freshwater,
Stella slips back into the sea, presumably
to go back to the island.
Nicolas stays on the boat and, by nightfall,
finds himself approaching the harbor of a
major city.
And that’s the ending of the movie.
Now, for the explanation.
The story is happening in a place by the sea
where we see a group of humanoids living their lives
This place, as you can see, has only young
boys and female adults.
No young girls or male adults.
As shown later in the movie, the female adults
have suckers on their backs, indicating that
they are humanoid water-based lifeforms; they
breathe underwater too.
These humanoids are the result of the evolution
of the starfish.
The only way the adults of this species can
reproduce is asexual as there are no adult men
It looks like the only way to make babies
is by externally creating a zygote and placing
them in the bellies of young boys.
The bodies of these boys seem to be able to
host the fetus up until one point.
After that, the fetuses need to be surgically
removed and grown externally.
Sometimes, if the boy's body is able to survive,
they place the boy in a tank where the fetus
grows externally in the water while still
connected to the boy.
As we can see in the movie, Nicolas is being
given medication every day.
This is to prepare his body to host the fetus.
When it is time, he's admitted, and the zygote
is injected into him.
Other boys on the island are being given the
same treatment.
We can assume that all those young boys are
stolen continuously from cities and taken
to this seaside place.
In the movie, we can see Nicolas draws not only a dead
boy and starfishes but also a bicycle, a car,
a building, and a giraffe.
Nicolas is drawing these from memory, as they
cannot be found in the village.
This suggests that he was kidnapped as a baby
and brought there.
However, the boys grow remembering very little
where they came from.
At the beginning of the film, Nicholas saw
a dead body.
We can assume that he died while trying to
escape, and those women chose to keep it a
secret.
In the film, we also see the women lying together,
writhing around in the mud, and passing an
object from one to another.
This is a kind of birth reproduction ritual.
Having a baby among them drives those women
into a maternal frenzy and they produce zygotes
which is then gathered and injected into boys
to impregnate them.
In another scene, we're shown a glimpse of
the humanoids watching a video of a cesarian operation
This is how they have been figuring how to
cut the abdomens without hurting the fetuses.
It appears that the humanoids usually get
the cesarean cut wrong and end up killing
the host kid.
We can see this happens to Victor, who dies
after the operation.
However, sometimes they are able to cut just
right and transfer the host into the incubation tank
This happens to Nicolas, who survives the
operation.
Once inside, the fetuses grow pretty quick,
and the host stays alive, perhaps to be implanted
with another zygote afterward.
At the end of the movie, Stella, who genuinely
loves Nicolas, decides to save him from his misery
She then sneaks Nicolas out and takes him
to a boat.
This appears to be the way the humanoids travel
and enter into human cities to abduct kids.
As it becomes night, Nicolas sees that he's
approaching the shore of a human city.
We can assume that he will be rescued and
unite with his original parents.
And that's my explanation for the movie.
Subscribe for more videos like this, turn
on notifications, and leave a like to help
the channel out.
Thank you for watching.